>> Ifill: PRESIDENT OBAMA IN
BEIJING, OPENS THE DOOR TO
EASING BUSINESS AND DIPLOMATIC
TENSIONS WITH CHINA.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS MONDAY,
THE WHITE HOUSE WEIGHS IN ON THE
DEBATE OVER A FAIR AND FREE
INTERNET.
>> Ifill: PLUS, IN MEXICO, A
GROWING POPULATION, AGING
INFRASTRUCTURE AND INEFFECTIVE
POLITICS LIMIT ACCESS TO WATER
IN ONE OF THE WORLD'S MOST
CROWDED CITIES.
FO I'VE HAD PEOPLE ASK ME R
BRIBES, FOR EXAMPLE.
THEY COULD PUT UP A COUPLE
HUNDRED THOUSAND HARVESTING
SYSTEMS IN THEIR MUNICIPALITY
AND BASICALLY SAY THIS PROJECT
WILL GO TO YOU, BUT YOU KNOW
WHAT'S GOING TO COME TO ME.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT TODAY LOWERED
EXPECTATIONS FOR THE NUMBER OF
PEOPLE TO SIGN UP FOR COVERAGE
UNDER THE PRESIDENT'S HEALTH
CARE LAW.
THE REPORT CAME JUST AHEAD OF
THE ENROLLMENT PERIOD THAT
BEGINS THIS SATURDAY.
ENROLLMENT ESTIMATES THE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES FORECAST NINE TO 9.9
MILLION AMERICANS SIGNING UP FOR
PRIVATE HEALTH PLANS, IN 2015.
THAT'S WELL BELOW THE
CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE
FORECAST OF 13 MILLION.
NEW NUMBERS H.H.S. ALSO REPORTED
7.1 MILLION PEOPLE ENROLLED THIS
YEAR, 200,000 FEWER THAN THE
PREVIOUS ESTIMATE.
>> Ifill: THE U.S. POSTAL
SERVICE SAYS IT'S BEEN HACKED--
THE LATEST GOVERNMENT AGENCY TO
COME UNDER CYBER-ATTACK.
>> Ifill: "THE WASHINGTON POST"
REPORTED TODAY THAT CHINESE
GOVERNMENT HACKERS ARE THE MAIN
SUSPECTS IN THE MID-SEPTEMBER
ATTACK.
THE POSTAL SERVICE SAID THEY MAY
HAVE GOTTEN SOCIAL SECURITY
NUMBERS, ADDRESSES AND DATES OF
BIRTH.
IT'S UNCLEAR HOW MANY OF THE
AGENCY'S 800-THOUSAND WORKERS
WERE AFFECTED.
>> Woodruff: WINTER ARRIVED, IN
FORCE, IN THE UPPER MIDWEST
TODAY WITH HEAVY SNOW AND
TEMPERATURES 40 DEGREES BELOW
AVERAGE.
A MAJOR STORM MOVED IN LAST
NIGHT FROM THE DAKOTAS ACROSS
MINNESOTA AND WISCONSIN.
UP TO A FOOT OF SNOW WAS
POSSIBLE IN NORTHERN WISCONSIN
AND MINNESOTA'S MID-SECTION.
THE FRIGID AIR IS EXPECTED TO
FREEZE MUCH OF THE MIDWEST AND
EASTERN U.S. AS THE WEEK
PROGRESSES.
>> Ifill: IN NIGERIA, A SUICIDE
BOMBER KILLED AT LEAST 48
STUDENTS AT A HIGH SCHOOL
ASSEMBLY IN THE COUNTRY'S
NORTHEAST.
THE ISLAMIST GROUP BOKO HARAM
WAS BELIEVED RESPONSIBLE.
SURVIVORS SAID THE KILLER
DRESSED IN A STUDENT UNIFORM AND
HID THE BOMB IN A BACKPACK.
>> Woodruff: TWO FATAL STABBING
ATTACKS IN THE MIDDLE EAST
TURNED UP ARAB-ISRAELI TENSIONS
TODAY.
IN THE FIRST, A PALESTINIAN MAN
KILLED AN ISELI RASOLDIER AT A
TRAIN STATION IN JERUSALEM.
THE ATTACKER WAS ARRESTED.
LATER, IN THE WEST BANK, ANOTHER
PALESTINIAN STABBED A WOMAN TO
DEATH NEAR A JEWISH SETTLEMENT
BEFORE BEING SHOT AND SEIZED.
THEY FOLLOWED OTHER RECENT
ATTACKS, AND PROMPTED A WARNING
FROM ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU.
>> ( translated ): WE WILL FIGHT
AGAINST THE INCITEMENT FROM THE
PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY WITH
AGENTS FROM EXTREMIST ISLAM.
THOSE WHO PROTEST AGAINST THE
STATE OF ISRAEL AND IN FAVOR OF
THE PALESTINIAN STATE, I SAY TO
THEM, SIMPLY, MOVE THERE, TO THE
PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY OR GAZA.
I PROMISE YOU THAT THE STATEOF
ISRAEL WILL NOT MAKE IT
DIFFICULT FOR YOU, BUT FOR THOSE
WHO STAY HERE, WE WILL MAKE IT
DIFFICULT IF YOU ARE A RIOTER OR
A TERRORIST.
>> Woodruff: THE PALESTINIAN
AUTHORITY, WHICH RULES IN THE
WEST BANK, HAD NO IMMEDIATE
COMMENT, BUT IN GAZA, THE
MILITANT GROUP HAMAS PRAISED THE
ATTACKS.
>> Ifill: THE FATE OF THE
ISLAMIC STATE GROUP'S LEADER,
ABU BAKR AL-BAGHDADI, REMAINED
UNCLEAR TODAY.
THE PENTAGON SAID IT CAN'T
CONFIRM REPORTS THAT HE WAS
KILLED OR WOUNDED IN WEEKEND AIR
STRIKES OVER NORTHERN IRAQ.
SEPARATELY, IRAQI STATE TV
REPORTED AN AIDE TO BAGHDADI
DIED IN AN AIR STRIKE NEAR
FALLUJAH.
AN AMERICAN DOCTOR WHO CAUGHT
EBOLA IN WEST AFRICA WILL BE
RELEASED FROM A HOSPITAL IN
NEW YORK CITY TOMORROW.
P "NEW YORK TIMES" REPORTED
DR. CRAIG SPENCER RECOVERED.
WORD OF HIS INFECTION LAST MONTH
CAUSED FEARS IN THE CITY WHERE
IT CAME OUT HE HAS BEEN OUT IN
PUBLIC BEFORE HE TESTED
POSITIVE.
>> Ifill: IN ECONOMIC NEWS, OIL
PRICES FELL AGAIN, BELOW $78
DOLLARS A BARREL IN NEW YORK
TRADING.
THE LATEST LUNDBERG SURVEY ALSO
FOUND GAS PRICES HAVE FALLEN
ANOTHER 13 CENTS IN THE LAST TWO
WEEKS.
AND ON WALL STREET STOCKS EDGED
HIGHER, POSTING NEW RECORDS
ALONG THE WAY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 39 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
17,613, ITS BEST EVER; THE S&P
500 ALSO HIT A NEW RECORD,
ADDING SIX POINTS, TO FINISH AT
2,038; AND THE NASDAQ ROSE 19
POINTS, TO 4,651.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE NEWSHOUR.
THE PRESIDENT'S PUSH TO EXPAND
TRADE WITH ASIA.
THE FIGHT FOR A FAIR AND FREE
INTERNET.
E-MAILS SHOW GENERAL MOTORS KNEW
OF FAULTY IGNITIONS MONTHS
EARLIER THAN REPORTED.
A LOOK AT HOW MONEY SHAPED THIS
YEAR'S ELECTION.
MEXICO CITY'S WATER WOES, HOW
COMMON STREET IMINCRALS IN
MILWAUKEE STOLE A FIVE MILLION
DOLLAR VIOLIN.
AND, THE LIFE OF NELSON
ROCKEFELLER, THE POLITICIAN WITH
A DEMOCRATIC HEART AND A
REPUBLICAN HEAD.
>> Ifill: DURING PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S FIRST TERM AS COMMANDER
IN CHIEF HIS ADMINISTRATION
SIGNALED A NEW PRIORITY IN
AMERICA'S FOREIGN POLICY THE SO-
CALLED ASIA PIVOT.
BUT THREE YEARS OF MULTIPLE
CRISES ON OTHER CONTINENTS, AND
AT HOME, HAVE DISTRACTED THE
ADMINISTRATION FROM THAT GOAL.
STARTING IN CHINA, THE PRESIDENT
HOPES TO CHANGE THAT THIS WEEK.
CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
EXPLAINS.
>> Warner: THE PRESIDENT ARRIVED
IN THE HEART OF THE WORLD'S
FASTEST RISING POWER THIS
MORNING FRESH FROM A DRUBBING IN
T 'SLECTIONS.
HIS STOP IN BEIJING BEGINS A
WEEK-LONG TRIP THAT WILL INCLUDE
MYANMAR AND AUSTRALIA.
AS HE SEEKS TO BOOST U.S.
INFLUENCE IN A REGION WHERE
CHINA ENJOYS GROWING CLOUT.
HIS FOCUS TODAY WAS ON
COMMERCIAL TIES AT THE ASIA
PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION
SUMMIT-- OR APEC.
>> OVER THE NEXT FIVE YEARS,
NEARLY HALF OF ALL ECONOMIC
GROWTH OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES
IS PROJECTED TO COME FROM RIGHT
HERE IN ASIA.
THAT MAKES THIS REGION AN
INCREDIBLE OPPORTUNITY FOR
CREATING JOBS AND ECONOMIC
GROWTH IN THE UNITED STATES AND
ANY SERIOUS LEADER IN AMERICA,
WHETHER IN POLITICS OR IN
COMMERCE, RECOGNIZES THAT FACT.
YET EARLIER AT THE U.S. EMBASSY,
HE HOSTED LEADERS OF 11
COUNTRIES WORKING TO PUT
TOGETHER A TRANS-PACIFIC TRADE
PARTNERSHIP-- OR .T.P.P-- THAT
POINTEDLY EXCLUDES CHINA.
AT APEC, HE HAD SOUGHT TO
REASSURE BEIJING THAT THE U.S.
WASN'T TRYING TO HEM CHINA IN.
>> WE WELCOME THE RISE OF A
PROSPEROUS, PEACEFUL AND STABLE
CHINA.
NOT ONLY BECAUSE IT'S IN CHINA'S
BEST INTEREST, BUT BECAUSE IT'S
IN AMERICA'S BEST INTEREST, AND
THE WORLD'S BEST INTEREST.
WE WANT CHINA TO DO WELL.
OBAMA WILL HAVE EXTENDED TALKS
WITH CHINESE PRESIDENT XI
JINPING TOMORROW AND WEDNESDAY.
AND TODAY THE TWO COUNTRIES
ANNOUNCED THEY'D GRANT EACH
OTHER'S CITIZENS VISAS VALID FOR
10 YEARS.
BUT OTHER CONCERNS SHADOW THE
TRIP, INCLUDING CHINA'S
TERRITORIAL ASSERTIVENESS
AGAINST ITS NEIGHBORS IN THE
EAST AND SOUTH CHINA SEAS.
PRESIDENT XI AND JAPANESE PRIME
MINISTER SHINZO ABE DID MEET
TODAY IN WHAT WAS BILLED AS A
FIRST STEP TO EASE TENSIONS.
BUT THEIR PUBLIC HANDSHAKE WAS
NOTICEABLY TENSE.
ALSO OF CONCERN TO WASHINGTON,
CYBERSECURITY ATTACKS ON U.S.
COMPANIES AND GOVERNMENT
AGENCIES
CHINA'S CRACKDOWN ON HUMAN
RIGHTS, AND HOW IT WILL
ULTIMATELY RESPOND TO PRO-
DEMOCRACY PROTESTS IN HONG KONG.
WEDNESDAY, MR. OBA ARAMRIVES IN
MYANMAR FORMERLY KNOWN AS BURMA.
HE'LL MEET WITH PRESIDENT THEIN
SEIN WHOM HE INITIALLY APPLAUDED
FOR MOVING TOWARD DEMOCRATIC
REFORMS.
BUT WASHINGTON IS NOW CONCERNED
THAT REFORMS ARE BACKSLIDING,
AND MINORITY MUSLIMS,
JOURNALISTS AND OPPOSITION
ACTIVISTS ARE BEING REPRESSED.
THE PRESIDENT ALSO WILL MEET
WITH OPPOSITION LEADER AUNG SAN
SUU KYI, WHO INITIALLY
ENCOURAGED THE WARMING OF U.S.-
MYANMAR RELATIONS, BUT IS NOW
URGING CAUTION.
THE PRESIDENT ENDS HIS TRIP IN
AUSTRALIA AT A G-20 SUMMIT.
>> Ifill: AND MARGARET JOINS ME
NOW.
OTHER THAN GETTING AWAY FROM BAD
ELECTORAL NEWS HERE, WHAT IS THE
PRESIDENT HOPING TO ACCOMPLISH
ON THIS TRIP, MARGARET?
>> LAST WEEK WHEN SECRETARY
KERRY SAID THAT THE U.S.-CHINA
RELATIONSHIP WAS THE MOST
CONSEQUENTIAL ONE IN THE WORLD
AND WOULD DO A LOT TO SHAPE THIS
CENTURY, THAT TO ME SUMMED UP
THE OPPORTUNITIES AND DILEMMA
FOR THE PRESIDENT.
TO THE IDEA OF CHINA AN ARISING
POWER, CHALLENGING U.S.
DOMINANCE IN THAT PART OF THE
WORLD FOR A HALF CENTURY, AND
AGGRESSIVENESS AND ASSERTIVENESS
TERRITORIAL IS NEW, BUT
WASHINGTON CAN'T APPROACH THIS
LIKE A 20th CENTURY GRAND
RIVALRY BECAUSE THE U.S. KNEADS
CHINA, ON ISSUES CLICK CHINA
CHANGE AND OTHER ISSUES THE U.S.
CAN'T SOLVE WITHOUT CHINA.
THE DILEMMA IS, YOU KNOW, HOW TO
INCORPORATE CONCERNS THAT THE
U.S. HAS ABOUT CHINA'S
PERFORMANCE ON HUMAN RIGHTS, ON
CYBERTHEFT AND MANY ISSUES
WITHOUT TOTALLY ALIENATING THE
CHINESE.
YOU SAW THAT TODAY WHEN YOU
LISTENED TO THE PRESIDENT'S
COMMENTS ABOUT THE HONG KONG
PROTEST.
HE SAID, PLEASE, YOU NEED TO
EXERCISE RESTRAINT.
HE WAS VERY RESTRAINED HIMSELF
AND ACKNOWLEDGED THERE WAS A
COMPLICATED RELATIONSHIP.
>> Ifill: IS THAT BECAUSE HE
HAS A MORE OR LESS COMPLICATED
RELATIONSHIP WITH BEIJING THAN
LAST TIME IN THE MEETING IN
CALIFORNIA.
>CALIFORNIA.
IT'S CERTAINLY DIFFERENT THAN
2009 WHERE RIGHT AFTER THE BAT
IN THE FINANCIAL CRISIS THE
CHINESE KEPT LECTURING HIM
BECAUSE OF THE STATE OF THE
AMERICAN ECONOMIENED YOU CAUSED
IT, WE'RE WET WEATHERING IT
WELL, NOW IT'S THE U.S. IS DOING
BETTER AND THE CHINESE ARE
HAVING PROBLEMS.
THE WHITE HOUSE OK TONOTE OF THE
ELECTIONS, WENT TO DEMONSTRATE
THIS IS NO LAME DUCK PRESIDENT
AND THE WHITE HOUSE HAS BEEN
TELLING COUNTERPARTS IN CHINA
HIS HAND WILL BE STRENGTHENED IN
ASIA-PACIFIC THAT REPUBLICANS
WILL BE IN CHARGE IN THE GNAT,
MORE WILLING TO SPEND ON THE
SECURITY SIDE IN ASIA AND MORE
OPEN TO THE T.P.P. WHICH CHINA
DOESN'T LIKE.
>> Ifill: TO THIS DAY WE HEAR
OF CHINESE HACKING OF POSTAL
SERVICE AND REGULAR REPORTS.
WE SAW THE TENSION THERE, BUT
ARE THERE BETWEEN U.S. AND ITS
PARTNERS?
>> HUGE ESPECIALLY IN
CYBERSECURITY.
THE U.S. ARGUMENT IS, LOOK, WE
KNOW EACH SPY ON ONE ANOTHER AS
GOVERNMENTS BUT YOU ALL ALSO SPY
TO STEAL SECRETS AND DESIGNS FOR
AMERICAN COMPANIES TO GIVE TO
CHINESE RIVALS.
WE DON'T DO THAT.
THEY AGREE TO DISAGREE ON THAT,
I THINK.
>> Ifill: YEAH, WELL, AS THE
PRESIDENT WAS ARRIVING IN
BEIJING OR WAS ON HIS WAY, TWO
AMERICAN DETAINEES HELD IN
NORTH KOREA WERE RELEASED.
IS THAT A COINCIDENCE?
>> IT'S UNCLEAR BECAUSE YOU CAN
NEVER KNOW WHAT'S IN THE MIND OF
KIMJONG -UN OR ANY NORTH KOREAN
LEADER.
I WOULDN'T SAY DIRECTLY.
CHINA'S ALWAYS BEEN A BUFFER AND
PROTECTOR OF NORTH KOREA.
THAT SAID THE NEW CHINESE
LEADERSHIP REGARDS TO THE NEW
NORTH KOREAN LEADERSHIP IS A
LITTLE BIT, ONE PERSON SAID TO
ME, WACKO.
THEIR RELATIONSHIP WITH AND
INFLUENCE WITH NORTH KOREA IS
NOT AS GREAT AS IT WAS AND IT IS
POSSIBLE THAT THIS NEW HUMAN
RIGHTS REPORT THAT DOCUMENTED
SOME SYSTEMATIC OR GROSS
VIOLATIONS THEY CALLED IT IN THE
NORTH KOREA PRISON SYSTEM MAY
HAVE MET THE KIM JONG-UN WERE
NERVOUS, REFERRING TO THE
CRIMINAL COURT, AND MAYBE
DECIDED IT WOULD BE EASIER FOR
CHINA TO PROTECT THEM ON THAT
BUT WE REALLY DON'T OWE.
>> Ifill: TIMING IS
EVERYTHING.
>> YES.
>> Ifill: NICE TO SEE YOU,
MARGARET WARNER.
>> AS ALWAYS.
>> Woodruff: THE PRESIDENT'S
FOCUS MAY BE ON ASIA, BUT
EARLIER TODAY HE SURPRISED MANY
BY WEIGHING IN ON THE FUTURE OF
THE WEB.
THE SUBJECT, NET NEUTRALITY, OR
THE IDEA THAT ALL TRAFFIC ON THE
WEB SHOULD BE TREATED EQUALLY.
IT'S BEEN THE FOCUS OF A MAJOR
DEBATE AND BATTLE FOR YEARS
AS THE FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS
COMMISSION MUST DECIDE HOW TO
TREAT BROADBAND PROVIDERS.
SOME OF THE BIGGEST ONES HAVE
ARGUED THERE'S A PLACE AND A
NEED TO OFFER PREMIUM SERVICE AT
A DIFFERENT PRICE, WHILE STILL
MAINTAINING VITAL ACCESS FOR
ALL.
THE WHITE HOUSE RELEASED A VIDEO
IN WHICH THE PRESIDENT MADE HIS
MOST DIRECT COMMENTS YET ABOUT
HOW HE THOUGHT THE F.C.C. SHOULD
PROCEED.
THEY SHOULD MAKE IT CLEAR
THAT WHETHER YOU USE A COMPUTER,
PHONE OR TABLET, INTERNET
PROVIDERS HAVE A LEGAL
OBLIGATION NOT TO BLOCK OR LIMIT
YOUR ACCESS TO A WEB SITE.
CABLE COMPANIES CAN'T DECIDE
WHICH ONLINE STORES YOU CAN SHOP
AT OR WHICH STREAMING SERVICES
YOU CAN USE, AND THEY CAN'T LET
ANY COMPANY PAY FOR PRIORITY
OVER ITS COMPETITORS.
TO PUT THESE PROTECTIONS IN
PLACE, I'M HAVING THE FCC TO
RECLASSIFY INTERNET SERVICE
UNDER TITLE 2 OF A LAW KNOWN AS
THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS AC.
IN PLANE ENGLISH, I'M ASKING
THEM TO RECOGNIZE THAT FOR MOST
AMERICANS THE INTERNET HAS
BECOME AN ESSENTIAL PART OF
EVERYDAY COMMUNICATION AND
EVERYDAY LIFE.
>> Woodruff: WE GET A DEEPER
EXPLANATION OF THE PRESIDENT'S
MOVE AND REACTION TO IT WITH MEG
MEGAN SMITH, CHIEF U.S.
TECHNOLOGY OFFICER AT THE WHITE
HOUSE.
WELL COME TO THE "NewsHour".
I THINK THE FIRST QUESTION IS
WHY IS THE PRESIDENT MAKING WHAT
I THINK SOME ARE SAYING AN
UNPRECEDENTEDLY STRONG STATEMENT
OF HIS OWN VIEWS ABOUT HOW THE
INTERNET SHOULD OPERATE?
>> THANKS, JUDY.
YES, IT'S IMPORTANT TO NOTE THE
SEC RECEIVED 3.7 MILLION
COMMENTS FROM THE AMERICANS AND
TODAY THE PRESIDENT IS ADDING
HIS VOICE TO THAT.
NET NEUTRALITY IS SUCH AN
IMPORTANT PRINCIPLE FOR THE WEB
AND THE INTERNET.
IT'S HOW THE INTERNET'S OPERATED
FOR ALL THIS TIME.
WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT STAYS
CLEAR AS WE ADVANCE INTO THE
FUTURE.
>> Woodruff: LET ME READ YOU
SOME OF THE COMMENTS THAT HAVE
BEEN POURING IN TODAY FROM SOME
FOLKS WHO ARE CONCERNED ABOUT
THIS.
THE FORMER CHAIRMAN OF THE
F.C.C., NOW PRESIDENT OF THE
NATIONAL CABLE AND
TELECOMMUNICATIONS ASSOCIATION,
MICHAEL POWELL, HE ISSUED A
STATEMENT SAYING "WE ARE STUNNED
THE PRESIDENT WOULD ABANDON THE
LONG-STANDING BIPARTISAN POLICY
OF WIDELY REGULATING INTERNET
AND CALL FOR EXTREME REGULATION.
>> WELL, IT'S INTERESTING SOME
OF THE REACTIONS I'VE SEEN AS
WELL.
THIS PRINCIPAL OF NET NEUTRALITY
HAS BEEN OPERATING SINCE THE
BEGINNING AND, SO, THE F.C.C.
HAS AN OPPORTUNITY HERE TO PUT
THAT INTO PRACTICE SO THERE'S
NOT SOME KIND OF EXTREME
REGULATION ADDED HERE.
WE REALLY WANT TO MAKE SURE THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE ARE ABLE TO GET
TO ANY WEB SITE THEY'D LIKE TO
GET TO.
LET'S SAY FOR EXAMPLE YOU WANT
TO REACH VIDEO PROVIDERS, YOU
DON'T WANT ONE PROVIDER TO PAY
EXTRA SO THEY CAN GET TO YOU
FASTER AND OTHERS ARE SLOWER.
YOU WANT THE INTERNET TO OPERATE
JUST AS IT OPERATES EQUALLY
ACROSS.
ALSO CAN YOU IMAGINE IF YOU'RE
MAKING A BRAND-NEW STARTUP AND
THERE'S ONE OR TWO OF YOU IN THE
GARAGE, YOU WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT WEB SITE CAN GET TO YOU
JUST AS FAST AS A WEB SITE FROM
A POWERFUL COMPANY.
SO THE MOST IMPORTANT PRINCIPLE
IS NET NEUTRALITY AND IT HAS
BEEN OPERATING FROM THE
BEGINNING.
>> Woodruff: WE'RE ALSO SEEING
COMMENTS FROM VERIZON.
IT'S CALL IT A RADICAL REVERSAL
OF COURSE THAT WOULD IN AND OF
ITSELF THREATENED GREAT HARM TO
THE INTERNET.
WE HAVE THE LEADING MOBILE PHONE
ASSOCIATION C.T.I.A. IMSAYING
IMPOSING ANTIQUATED COMMENTARY
OR REGULATION ON THE MOBILE
WIRELESS ECOSYSTEM IS A GROSS
REACTION.
>> IT'S NOT PLAYING OUT IN HOW
THE INTERNET WORKS.
YOU SEE AN EXTRAORDINARY AMOUNT
OF COMMENTS ON THE OTHER SIDE OF
THAT SO IT'S AN INTERNATIONAL
AMERICAN CONVERSATION.
PEOPLE WHO SURF ARE SUPPORTING
OF CONTINUING THE WEB TO HAVE
THE SAME KIND OF REGULATION IT'S
HAD THE WHOLE TIME.
NET NEUTRALITY IS VERY
IMPORTANT.
FOR EXAMPLE, IF YOU WERE ON THE
PHONE, YOU WOULDN'T WANT YOUR
PHONE PROVIDER TO, SAY, STOP YOU
FROM CALLING HERTZ IF YOU WANTED
AVIS OR VICE VERSA.
WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT THE
INTERNET OPERATES THE SAME AS
THE PHONE SERVICE.
THAT'S WHAT TITLE TWO IN THE
COME REGULATIONS MAKE AVAILABLE.
SO WE CAN DO THIS LIGHT-WEIGHT,
FLEXIBLE LAW FOR THE INTERNET
SERVICE PROVIDERS TO HAVE THEM
BE COVERED UNDER THIS LAW AND
THEN IT ALLOWS FOR SOMETHING
CALLED FORBEARANCE, SO THERE'S A
LONG HISTORY OF THESE FOLKS NOT
INVESTIGATE HAVE THE REGULAR
SENSE WHERE THEY HAVE PRICE
CONTROL.
>> Woodruff: BUT IT'S HAVING
THE PRESIDENT AT LEAST SAYING TO
THE INDEPENDENT F.C.C. THAT THIS
IS HOW HE WANTS IT TO ISSUE
REGULATIONS.
WHAT'S THAT SAY ABOUT THE
PRESIDENT'S VIEW OF THE
INDEPENDENCE OF THE F.C.C.?
>> THE F.C.C. IS AN INDEPENDENT
REGULATOR AND ORGANIZATION AND
THEY WILL MAKE A DECISION.
THEY CALL FOR INPUT FROM ACROSS
THE COUNTRY AND SO THE dRESIDENT
IS WEIGHING IN TODAY WITH A
VOICE AND HE'S BEEN IN SUPPORT
OF NET NEUTRALITY FROM THE
BEGINNING SINCE HE WAS CANDIDATE
OBAMA BEFORE PRESIDENT.
AGAIN, THERE WERE 3.7 MILLION
COMMENTS THAT CAME INTO THE
F.C.C.
THEY WILL BE MIXING ALL THE
COMMENTS TOGETHER AND LOOKING AT
THE OPPORTUNITY AND DECIDING
THIS THEMSELVES ARE AN
INDEPENDENT REGULATOR.
IT'S JUST SUCH AN IMPORTANT
PRINCIPLE FOR OUR ECONOMY AND
FOR OUR FUTURE AND INNOVATION
AND FOR THE AMERICAN PEOPLE TO
BE ABLE TO HAVE ACCESS TO
WHATEVER WEB SITES THEY WOULD
LIKE TO GO TO AND FOR THE
INDEPENDENCE OF THE ESTABLISHED
ENTREPRENEURS WHO HAVE BEEN ABLE
TO MAKE THE INCREDIBLE WEB SITES
THAT HAVE GROWN OUR ECONOMY AND
WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT STAYS
STRONG INTO THE FUTURE AND
THEY'RE NOT ABLE TO CREATE
UNFAIR ADVANTAGES FOR WEB SITES
AND HAVE PEOPLE PAY DIFFERENT
AMOUNTS.
>> Woodruff: YOU SAY
3.7 MILLION PEOPLE WEIGHED, IN
BUT YOU WOULD AGREE THE
PRESIDENT EXPRESSING HIS VIEW IS
A HEAVIER, SHALL WE SAY, FINGER
ON THE SCALE THAN ANYONE ELSE'S,
ISN'T IT?
>> IT'S VERY IMPORTANT.
THE F.C.C. IS AN INDEPENDENT
ORGANIZATION AND THEY WILL LOOK
AT ALL THE DIFFERENT THINGS IN
FRONT OF THEM BUT THE
PRESIDENT'S OPINION IS STRONG.
IT'S IMPORTANT FOR NAWRPS,
INDUSTRY AND THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
AND IMPORTANT IT'S FLEXIBLE IN
THE INDUSTRY THAT WE HAVE THIS
LIGHTWEIGHT TITLE 2 LAW
AVAILABLE TO US TO KEEP THE
INTERNET FREE AND OPEN FOR ALL
AMERICAN PEOPLE.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY, MEGAN
SMITH, SOME HAVE ASKED WHY IS
THE PRESIDENT DOING THIS NOW, IS
THERE A REASON HE WAITED TILL
AFTER THE ELECTION TO STEP IN?
>> I'M NOT A PUNDIT SO I'M NOT
SURE ABOUT TIMING IN THAT, BUT I
THINK REALLY THE MOST IMPORTANT
THING IS HE FEELS INCREDIBLY
STRONGLY ABOUT THIS AND THE
F.C.C. IS CONSIDERING THE ISSUES
SO IT'S IMPORTANT FOR HE AND THE
REST OF THE AMERICAN PEOPLE TO
BE OUT THERE WITH THEIR VOICES.
>> Woodruff: MEGAN SMITH,
CHIEF TECHNOLOGY OFFICER AT THE
WHITE HOUSE.
WE THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU, JUDY.
>> Ifill: THERE'S YET ANOTHER
NEW REVELATION IN GENERAL
MOTORS' MASS RECALLS OVER FAULTY
IGNITION SWITCHES. INTERNAL E-
MAILS SHOW G.M. ORDERED HALF A
MILLION REPLACEMENT SWITCHES
NEARLY TWO MONTHS BEFORE TELLING
SAFETY REGULATORS ABOUT THE
PROBLEM.
THE E-MAILS WERE RELEASED AS
PART OF A CLASS-ACTION LAWSUIT.
THE SWITCH PROBLEM HAS BEEN
LINKED TO AT LEAST 32 DEATHS,
AND CAUSED THE RECALL OF 2.6
MILLION VEHICLES.
DAVID SHEPARDSON HAS BEEN
COVERING THE STORY FOR THE
DETROIT NEWS AND JOINS ME NOW.
DAVID, WELCOME BACK.
SHOES KEEP DROPPING.
WHY ARE WE JUST HEARING ABOUT
THIS ONE NOW, DAVID?
>> THESE E-MAILS YOU MENTIONED
WERE IN 4 MILLION PAGES OF
RECORDS THAT ARE IN A DEPOSITORY
IN THIS MULTI-DISTRICT
LITIGATION SUIT AND LAWYERS FOR
PEOPLE SUING HAVE BEEN MINING
THESE E-MAILS AND UNCOVERING
THEM AND, YOU'RE RIGHT, IT DOES
RAISE QUESTIONS ABOUT WHY DIDN'T
THE NATIONAL TRAFFIC
ADMINISTRATION ASSOCIATION, WHY
DIDN'T G.M. DISCLOSE THE FACT
THAT SIX WEEKS BEFORE THEY
ULTIMATELY DECIDED ON THE RECALL
TO GO AHEAD WITH WHAT'S A VERY
LARGE ORDER?
AT LEAST ON ITS FACE IT SUGGESTS
THE COMPANY WAS PREPARING FOR A
RECALL FAR EARLIER THAN WE KNEW.
>> Woodruff: NOT ONLY A LARGE
BUT URGENT ORDER WITH WORDS LIKE
AGGRESSIVE AND WE NEED TO DO
THIS RIGHT NOW IN THOSE E-MAILS.
>> RIGHT.
>> Woodruff: IS THAT STHA
UNUSUAL, THE 500,000?
LARGER THAN YOU USUALLY EXPECT?
>> IT IS USUAL IN THE SENSE THAT
THIS HAPPENED A DAY AFTER THE
MEETING WHERE G.M. SAID WE DON'T
HAVE ENOUGH INFORMATION TO
DECIDE ON A RECALL AND
ULTIMATELY GOT PUSHED BACK SIX
WEEKS.
COMPANIES START ORDERING PARTS
FOR BIG RECALLS EARLY FOR THE
OBVIOUS REASONS, DEALERSHIPS ARE
FLOODED WITH CUSTOMERS AND YOU
CAN'T GET THE PARTS IN.
EVEN WITH THE AGGRESSIVE
TIMETABLE, DWM DIDN'T GET THE
PARTS TILL APRIL SO IT TOOK A
LONG TIME AND AS A RESULT THEY
GAVE OUT THOUSANDS OF OTHER
RECALLS.
>> Woodruff: IS THE QUESTION
ABOUT RECALLS OR NOTIFYING THE
GOVERNMENT ABOUT THE IMPENDING
RECALL?
>> EXACTLY.
YOU'RE REQUIRED WITHIN FIVE DAYS
OF DETERMINING THERE IS A SAFETY
DEFECT TO NOTIFY THE GOVERNMENT
AND START THE PROCESS.
IT DOES RAISE QUESTIONS DID G.M.
KNOW THERE WAS A SE EDEFECT AND
WHAT DID THE SENIOR MANAGER
KNOW?
THE NEW GENERAL C.E.O. SAID SHE
DIDN'T KNOW OF THE ISSUE DILL
LATE DECEMBER AND WE DON'T KNOW
THE ANSWER ABOUT WHETHER MARY
BAR KNEW ABOUT THE PARTS.
>> Woodruff: SHE DIDN'T KNOW
TILL WHEN?
>> SHE SAID AND TESTIFIED SHE
DIDN'T KNOW TO HAVE THE DECISION
TO RECALL THE VEHICLES UNTIL
JANUARY 31, THE DAY G.M.
DECIDED.
>> Woodruff: SHE HAASENT BEEN
ASKED ABOUT THE PARTS ORDER
BECAUSE WE DIDN'T KNOW ABOUT IT?
>> RIGHT.
>> Woodruff: SEEMS LIKE WE'RE
ON A HAMSTER WHEEL.
WHAT IS IT WE'VE HEARD ABOUT
RECALLS BEING DELAYED BEFORE IN
THIS WHOLE UNFOLDING SAGA?
IS IT MAKE THAT STORY MORE
EXPENSIVE THAN WE PREVIOUSLY
THOUGHT?
>> I THINK IT SHOWS THERE'S A
LOT OF AMMUNITION FOR CRITICS ON
CAPITOL HILL TO PUSH FOR AUTO
SAFETY REFORMS.
THERE ARE NOW AUTO COMPANIES
THAT HAVE RECALLED 8 MILLION
CARS FOR EXPLODING AIR BAGS,
THAT CAN TRAP PEOPLE, INJURY OR
POTENTIALLY KILL THEM.
IT RAISES QUESTIONS ABOUT HAS
G.M. COME CLEAN COMPLETELY ABOUT
THE EARLY DAYS OF THIS PROBLEM
AND WHETHER, YOU KNOW, DID THE
COMPANY KNOW MORE IN DECEMBER,
YOU KNOW, SIX WEEKS BEFORE THE
RECALL BEGAN.
>> MARY SAID THAT WAS THE OLD
G.M. AND THIS IS THE NEW G.M.
WHAT CHANGES WOULD BE PUT IN
PLACE TO STOP THAT SORT OF THING
FROM HAPPENING TODAY?
>> G.M. IS TAKING THINGS FAR
MORE AGGRESSIVELY.
THEY'RE RECALLING HUNDREDS OF
VEHICLES AT THE SLIGHTEST SIGNS
OF PROBLEMS.
EVEN THOUGH THEY'VE HAD 78
SEPARATE RECALL CAMPAIGNS, MANY
ARE COMING AFTER ONE, TWO, THREE
REPORTS OF PROBLEMS.
SO THEY WOULD SAY -- THEY WOULD
NEVER HAVE DONE WHAT OCCURRED IN
THIS CASE WHICH IS MONITORING A
PROBLEM YEAR AFTER YEAR, NOT
DOING ANYTHING, CREATING
COMMITTEES, TRYING TO GET TO THE
ROOT CAUSE.
THE NEW G.M. WOULD, THEY SAY,
MOVE MUCH FASTER AND WOULDN'T
GET THIS FESTER AS LONG AS IT
DID.
>> Woodruff: $35 MILLION FINE
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT SO, FAR?
>> AND REMEMBER THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION CALLED FOR
RAISING THAT.
THAT'S THE MAXIMUM AMOUNT BY
LAW.
THEY WANT TO RAISE IT TO
3 MILLION.
THE ATTORNEY GENERAL COULD OPT
TO FINE G.M. UNDER DIFFERENT
STATUTES AND MORE.
>> OTHER SHOES COULD DROP?
FAR FROM BEING OVER.
>> Woodruff: BUSY DAY.
THANKS.
>> THANKS, GWEN.
>> Woodruff: EVERY ELECTION
YEAR, MORE AND MORE MONEY IS
SPENT ON POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS.
2014 WAS NO DIFFERENT.
NEWSHOUR POLITICAL DIRECTOR
DOMENICO MONTANARO LOOKS INTO
JUST HOW MUCH WAS SPENT AND
WHERE IT WENT.
>> Reporter: FEWER PEOPLE VOTED
IN LAST WEEK'S MIDTERM ELECTIONS
THAN IN A VERY LONG TIME.
JUST 36% OF VOTERS WENT TO THE
POLLS, THE LOWEST SINCE 1942.
VOTERS BACK THEN HAD A PRETTY
GOOD EXCUSE, MANY OF THEM WERE
FIGHTING IN A WORLD WAR.
IN THIS ELECTION, THOUGH, THERE
WAS ONE GROUP PAYING CLOSE
ATTENTION, BIG-MONEY DONORS.
MORE MONEY WAS SPENT ON THESE
CONGRESSIONAL ELECTIONS THAN
EVER BEFORE FOUR BILLION
DOLLARS.
AND ESTIMATES SHOW THERE'S ABOUT
200 MILLION DOLLARS IN SO-CALLED
DARK MONEY THAT GOES UNREPORTED
THAT'S ALSO OUT THERE.
DESPITE SPENDING HITTING RECORD
LEVELS, THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE
GIVING MONEY WENT DOWN.
THAT'S THE FIRST TIME THAT'S
HAPPENED IN AT LEAST A QUARTER
CENTURY.
FEWER DONORS AND MORE MONEY
MEANS MORE PEOPLE WITH DEEP
POCKETS PARTICIPATING IN THE
SYSTEM.
SO WHERE AND HOW WAS THE MONEY
SPENT?
MUCH OF IT WENT TO TELEVISION
ADS.
MORE THAN A BILLION DOLLARS WAS
SPENT ON TV ADS, WITH ALMOST
HALF GOING TO JUST TEN SENATE
RACES.
THE MOST MONEY WAS SPENT IN
NORTH CAROLINA WITH ITS HOTLY
CONTESTED SENATE RACE, WON BY
REPUBLICAN THOM TILLIS, WHO
OUSTED INCUMBENT DEMOCRAT KAY
HAGAN.
IT WAS THE ONE STATE WHERE
DEMOCRATS ACTUALLY OUTSPENT
REPUBLICANS ON THE AIR.
IN THE NINE OTHERS, REPUBLICANS
HAD THE EDGE.
OVERALL, $113 MILLION WAS SPENT
IN NORTH CAROLINA, NEARLY 100
MILLION IN COLORADO, AND 85
MILLION IN IOWA.
ALL THREE WERE CONSIDERED
DEMOCRATIC FIREWALL STATES,
PLACES DEMOCRATS SAID IF THEY
WON, THEY'D HOLD THE SENATE.
THEY WERE OUTSPENT IN TWO OF
THEM AND LOST ALL THREE.
AND IN ALL OF THEM OUTSIDE
GROUPS SPENT FAR MORE THAN THE
CAMPAIGNS
THERE'S ANOTHER WAY TO LOOK AT
THESE NUMBERS.
HOW MUCH WAS SPENT PER VOTER.
ALASKA, WITH ITS HIGH-PROFILE
SENATE AND GOVERNOR'S RACES,
TOPS THE CHARTS.
MORE THAN A $120 WAS SPENT PER
VOTER IN THE LAND OF THE
MIDNIGHT SUN, WHERE THEY ARE
STILL COUNTING VOTES.
SO WHY DOES MONEY MATTER?
SURE, IT'S THE MOST EVER FOR A
MIDTERM.
BUT THAT, BY ITSELF, DOESN'T
TELL US MUCH
CONSIDER THIS, 94% OF THE
BIGGEST SPENDERS IN HOUSE RACES
WON.
THAT MAKES WHO SPENDS THE MOST A
PRETTY GOOD PREDICTOR OF WHO IS
GOING TO WIN.
DOMENICO MONTANARO, PBS
NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: FOR MORE ON THE
IMPACT OF MONEY IN THIS YEAR'S
ELECTION AND HOW IT COULD EXPAND
IN THE NEXT PRESIDENTIAL RACE WE
ARE JOINED BY MATEA GOLD OF "THE
WASHINGTON POST."
WELL COME BACK TO THE PROGRAM --
WELCOME BACK TO THE PROGRAM.
A MIND-BOGGLING AMOUNT OF MONEY.
MATEA, YOU'VE HAD A FEW DAYS TO
LOOK THROUGH THE DATA AND HOW
MUCH WAS SPENT.
YOU WERE TELLING US YOU NOTEDIC
DEMOCRATS, THOUGH THEY LOST SO
MANY RACES, RAISED MORE MONEY
THIS CYCLE.
>> SHIEWMPLET THIS IS A REALLY
BIG STORY THAT'S PART OF THE
2014 RACE.
WE REALLY THOUGHT -- WE SAW
DEMOCRATS ENGAGED IN THE
SUPER PAC WORLD IN A WAY THEY
HADN'T BEFORE.
THERE WAS AMBIVALENCE AND
RELUCTANCE ON PART OF DEMOCRATS
TO GIVE THE SUM BECAUSE THEY
THOUGHT THE SYSTEM WAS BROKEN
AND DIDN'T WANT TO PARTICIPATE
BUT AFTER 2012 WHEN THINK SAW
WHAT IMPACT SUPER PACS COULD
HAVE THEY JUMPED IN.
SO SENATE MAJORITY LED BY TOP
ADVICERS TO SENATE MAJORITY
LEADER HARRY REID STARTED
RAISING MONEY AND IN THE END
THEY WERE ABLE TO PUT
$60 MILLION INTO THE KEY SENATE
RACES.
>> Woodruff: HOW DID YOU SEE
THE MONEY BEING SPENT?
WE HEARD SO MUCH ABOUT THE TV
ADS.
WAS THAT WHERE IT WAS AND WAS
THAT SEEN TO BE THE MOST
EFFECTIVE PLACE?
>> CLEARLY A HUGE SHARE OF THE
MONEY WENT INTO TELEVISION ADDS.
WE FOUND AN INTERESTING
DEVELOPMENT IN WHICH MORE OR
MORE CONSERVATIVE GROUPS PLOWED
THEIR RESOURCES INTO NEW FORMS
OF REACHING VOTERS.
SO THEY ENGAGED IN OPPOSITION
RESEARCH REALLY EARLY IN THE
CYCLE.
THEY STARTED INVESTING IN FIELD,
GROUND OPERATIONS TO REACH
VOTERS.
THEY STARTED INVESTING IN MORE
DATA EFFORTS TO TRY TO
CONSOLIDATE THEIR INFORMATION
ABOUT VOTERS.
AND A LOT OF THIS WAS BEING DONE
AT THE DIRECTION OF DONORS WHO
REALLY WERE DISAPPOINTED WITH
THE RETURN THEY GOT ON THEIR
INVESTMENT IN 2012 WHEN THEY
SPENT HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF
DOLLARS TO TRY TO EJECT
PRESIDENT OBAMA FROM THE WHITE
HOUSE UNSUCCESSFULLY.
>> Woodruff: SO YOU'RE TALKING
TO PEOPLE IN BOTH PARTIES AND ON
THE OUTSIDE AND WE'VE TALKED
ABOUT HOW MUCH MONEY WAS RAISED
ON THE OUTSIDE.
WHAT DO YOU SEE AS THE LESSONS
TAKEN PLACE BY ALL THE PLAYERS
AND WHAT THEY NEED TO DO IN THE
PRESIDENTIAL CYCLE.
>> ONE IS THAT SINGLE-CANDIDATE
SUPER PACS WERE BIG IN THIS
RACE.
WE SAW THAT IN 2012 AND PRETTY
MUCH EVERY CONGRESSIONAL RACE
WILL HAVE SINGLE-CANDIDATE
SUPER PACS.
MEANING YOUR FRIENDS AND FAMILY
CAN WRITE UNLIMITED SUMS OF
MONEY FOR SUPER PACS TO GET YOU
ELECTED.
AND ON THE PRESIDENTIAL FRONT WE
SEE A HUGE SUPERSTRUCTURE IN
PLACE FOR HILLARY CLINTON.
THERE IS ALREADY A SUPER PAK
POISED TO RUN ADS FOR HER,
OPPOSITION RESEARCH GROUP, THE
REPUBLICANS HAVE NOTICED THIS
AND ARE WORKING TO FORM THEIR
OWN INFRASTRUCTURE TO COMPETE
WITH THAT.
I THINK IF ANYTHING THE OUTSIDE
GROUPS WILL BECOME MORE OF A
SENSE OF DRIVING THE ACTION IN
THE COMING YEARS.
>> Woodruff: MATEA GOLD WITH
"THE WASHINGTON POST," THE WOMAN
WHO WALKS AROUND WITH A
CALCULATOR.
THANK YOU.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Ifill: VIOLENT PROTESTS
CONTINUED IN MEXICO TODAY.
DEMONSTRATORS CLASHED WITH
POLICE IN ACAPULCO AS ANGER
MOUNTED OVER THE DISAPPEARANCE
OF 43 STUDENTS.
LATE LAST WEEK, THREE MEN
DETAINED IN THE CASE ADMITTED TO
SETTING FIRE TO THE VICTIMS.
GOVERNMENT INVESTIGATORS SAID
THEY FOUND DOZENS OF CHARRED
BODIES.
THEY ARE STILL WORKING ON
CONFIRMING THE IDENTITIES.
MANY THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY HAVE
BEEN CRITICAL MEXICAN PRESIDENT
ENRIQUE PENA NIETO'S REPONSE.
TONIGHT, WE TAKE A LOOK AT
ANOTHER LESS ATTENTION GETTING,
BUT STILL SEVERE, ISSUE FACING
MEXICO THE WATER SHORTAGE IN ITS
CAPITAL CITY.
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
FRED DE SAM LAZARO FILED THIS
REPORT PART OF OUR SERIES AGENTS
FOR CHANGE.
>> Reporter: EVERY DAY, LONG
LINES OF WATER TANKERS FILL UP
AT PUMPING STATIONS.
4,000 GALLONS ON EACH TRUCK,
ENOUGH FOR TWO HOMES FOR ABOUT A
WEEK.
>> KNOCK, KNOCK!
>> Reporter: IT'S NOT AN
EMERGENCY OR DROUGHT.
THIS IS NORMAL PRACTICE IN
MEXICO CITY, WITH A POPULATION
OF 22 MILLION, IT'S LIKE FILLING
A SWIMMING POOL WITH A TEACUP.
ENVIRONMENT SCIENTIST JUAN
SANTABANEZ DID THE MATH FOR ONE
LARGE NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> IN ISTAPALAPA THERE ARE 1000
TRUCKS DISTRIBUTING WATER TO TWO
MILLION PEOPLE, WHICH IS NOWHERE
NEAR ENOUGH TO MEET THE NEEDS OF
THOSE PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: IT'S EXPENSIVE,
INEFFICIENT AND CUSTOMERS LIKE
SYLVESTRE FERNANDEZ, A
STRUGGLING CAB DRIVER, ARE NOT
SATISFIED.
>> SOMETIMES IT TAKES UP TO FIVE
DAYS AFTER WE REQUEST IT TO
ARRIVE AND SOMETIMES WE CAN'T
BUY OTHER THINGS, LIKE DIAPERS
FOR THE BABY, BECAUSE WE HAVE TO
PAY FOR WATER.
>> Reporter: THE ALTERNATIVE,
REALLY THE ONLY CHOICE FOR MANY
OF THE POOREST IS SELF SERVICE
FROM A MUNICIPAL TAP.
AMELIA SEGURA TRUDGES DOWN AND
UP A STEEP MOUNTAIN, JERRY CANS
OTHE N BACK OF THREE DONKEYS
WHICH HER HUSBAND INDALECIA
BONILLA HELPS UNLOAD.
>> ( translated ): ITS REALLY
HARD. ITS 20 MINUTES DOWN HILL
THEN I HAVE TO WALK BACK UP.
WE COLLECT ENOUGH FOR ABOUT
THREE  DAYS WHEN IT RAINS, WHEN
IT'S DRY WE NEED MORE.
>> Reporter: THE CITY STRUGGLES
TO MEET THE PRESSING DEMAND.
WATER IS PUMPED UP FROM AQUIFERS
AND ALSO PIPED IN FROM A
NEIGHBORING PROVINCE.
ITS PURIFIED IN PLANTS LIKE
THIS, BUT HERE THERE'S ALSO A
SHORTAGE OF TRUST.
MEXICANS CONSUME MORE BOTTLED
WATER THAN ANY OTHER NATION.
>> ONE REASON IS THAT LESS TEN
PERCENT OF THE METRO AREA'S
SEWAGE IS TREATED.
THE REST FLOWS IN OPEN CANALS,
OFTEN WASHED UP WITH RAINS THAT
FLOOD THIS BOWL-SHAPED CITY
OVERWHELMING MANY HOMES IN POOR
NEIGHBORHOODS.
SHOVELING BLACK WATER FROM HOME
THESE PICTURES ARE FROM A FILM
DOCUMENTARY CALLED H2O MX.
THE DIRECTOR, JOSE COHEN SAYS HE
WANTED TO INJECT A SENSE OF
URGENCY ABOUT THIS GROWING
CRISIS, RELEASED THIS YEAR TO
CALL ATTENTION TO THE GROWING
CRISIS, SAYS ITS DIRECTOR JOSE
COHEN.
WE FOUND THAT IT'S AN EXTREMELY
SERIOUS HEALTH EMERGENCY AND
THERE IS A LOT OF SOCIAL
INJUSTICE GOING ON.
>> THERE IS A VERY HIGH
PROBABILITY THAT BY 2020 THERE
WILL BE A MINI-REVOLUTION, AT
LEAST IN MEXICO CITY.
>> Reporter: NO ONE DISAGREES
THE DWINDLING SUPPLY AND GROWING
POPULATION ARE LEADING TO ITS A
ACUTE SEVERE CRISIS.
YET THERE SEEMS TO BE LITTLE
MOMENTUM TO DO SOMETHING ABOUT
IT.
FOR ONE THING: WHERE TO START?
>> WORK CREWS ARE SHUTTING OFF
THE WATER SUPPLY TO THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD SO THEY CAN PLUG A
LEAK A FEW HUNDRED YARDS DOWN
THE STREET.
THE PROBLEM IS NOT THAT THERE
ARE A FEW BIG LEAKS BUT RATHER
THOUSANDS OF SMALL ONES ACROSS
MILES AND MILES OF UNDERGROUND
PIPING. MEXICO CITY LOSES 1000
LITERS OF WATER PER SECOND
THROUGH THIS SYSTEM.
>> 40% OF THE WATER THAT IS
AVAILABLE TO THE VALLEY IS LOST
TO LEAKS.
>> Reporter: ALMOST HALF OF IT.
>> AND 60% OF THE WATER THAT WE
USE COMES FROM THE AQUIFER, THE
ONE THAT IS DRYING, NOT ONLY DO
PEOPLE NOT GET WATER, EXTRACTING
IT FROM AQUIFERS BELOW IS
CAUSING THE GROUND TO SINK.
>> Reporter: YOU SEE EVIDENCE OF
IT IN BUILDINGS THAT ARE TILTING
PRECARIOUSLY AS THIS ONE IS
DOING IN THE BASILICA OF
GUADALUPE COMPLEX, ONE OF MEXICO
CITY MOS'ST HISTORIC LANDMARKS.
GEOLOGISTS SAY THIS CITY HAS
SUNK MORE THAN 40 FEET IN THE
LAST HALF CENTURY.
ENRIQUE LOMNITZ, MOVED BACK TO
HIS NATI MEXVEICO FROM THE U.S.
FIVE YEARS AGO, ANXIOUS TO PUT
HIS INDUSTRIAL DESIGN DEGREE
FROM MIT TO WORK.
>> EVERYWHERE I WENT PEOPLE WERE
TALKING ABOUT WATER, ABOUT HOW
THEY USED TO HAVE MORE WATER,
HOW THEY USED TO HAVE HIGHER-
QUALITY WATER, HOW WATER WAS
GETTING MORE EXPENSIVE AND  I
STARTED THINKING: WHY AREN'T
PEOPLE USING RAINWATER?
SO LOMNITZ STARTED A SOCIAL
ENTERPRISE THAT INSTALLS
RAINWATER COLLECTION AND STORAGE
SYSTEMS IN BUSINESSES AND HOMES.
>> THIS PART OF THE CITY GETS
VERY HIGH RAINFALL, IT GETS UP
TO 1,500 MILLIMETERS OF RAINFALL
A YEAR AND FOR EVERY SQUARE
METER OF ROOF, YOU GET 1,500
LITERS OF WATER PER YEAR.
SO A HOUSE LIKE THE ONE WE'RE IN
RIGHT NOW, FOR EXAMPLE, HAS 240
METERS OF ROOF/WHICH IS ABOUT
ENOUGH FOR TWO LOW-INCOME
FAMILIES TO GO ALL YEAR IN FIVE
YEARS, LOMNITZ'S GROUP, CALLED
ISLA URBANA, HAS INSTALLED 1,500
SUCH SYSTEMS.
NOT MANY, HE ADMITS, BUT THERE
AREIG O BBSTACLES.
HOMEOWNERS SIMPLY CAN'T OR WON'T
PAY THE $1000 COST.
AS FOR GOVERNMENT HELPING OUT...
>> I'VE HAD PEOPLE ASK ME FOR
BRIBES SIMPLY TO HELP ME GET A
PROJECT, FOR EXAMPLE, THEY COULD
PUT UP A COUPLE HUNDRED THOUSAND
RAINWATER HARVESTING SYSTEMS IN
THEIR MUNICIPALITY AND THEY'LL
BASICALLY SAY, THIS PROJECT WILL
GO TO YOU BUT, YOU KNOW, WHAT'S
GOING TO COME TO ME?
>> Reporter: ANOTHER
COMPLICATION, POLITICIANS ARE
LIMITED TO JUST ONE TERM.
>> SO AS SOON AS PEOPLE TAKE
OFFICE, THEY'RE ACTUALLY LOOKING
FOR A FUTURE SOMEWHERE ELSE.
I THINK IF ALL OF THE BUILDINGS
WERE HARVESTING RAINWATER I
THINK WE'D BE TALKING ABOUT AT
LEAST SOMETHING LIKE 30% OF THE
CITY'S WATER NEEDS COULD BE
COMING FROM RAINWATER HARVESTING
BUT RAMON AGUIRRE WHO HEADS THE
CITY'S WATER DEPARTMENT THINKS
THAT NUMBER IS MUCH LOWER, SINCE
RAINFALL VARIES WIDELY ACROSS
THE CITY.
>> ( translated ): IT IS LESS
THAN TEN PERCENT AND THAT IS
BEING GENEROUS.
TO BUILD INFRASTRUCTURE TO
CAPTURE THE WATER STORE THE
WATER PURIFY THE WATER IT'S JUST
NOT FINANCIALLY VIABLE.
>> Reporter: HIS DEPARTMENT HAS
DEVELOPED A COMPREHENSIVE REPAIR
PLAN.
>> ( translated ): WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT EVERY POSSIBLE ACTION THAT
CAN HELP COLLECTING RAINWATER,
FIXING THE LEAKS IN THE WHOLE
SYSTEM, INCREASE THE USE OF
RECYCLED WATER WHICH CAN BE USED
FOR BATHING/RECHARGING THE
AQUIFERS AND GENERALLY LOWERING
CONSUMPTION OF WER TATHE
PROBLEM?
A PRICE TAG IS FOUR TIMES THE
MONEY THAT COMES TO HIS
DEPARTMENT.
>> ( translated ): WATER IS A
BASIC SERVICE AND IT'S VERY
POLITICIZED WE HAVE ONE OF THE
LOWEST TARIFFS IN THE COUNTRY
WHEN WE SHOULD HAVE SOME OF THE
HIGHEST BUT IT IS POLITICALLY
SET.
TO COMPENSATE FOR THAT VERY LOW
TARIFF WE NEED VERY BIG
SUBSIDIES FROM THE GOVERNMENT,
WHICH WE DON'T GET.
>> Reporter: SO FOR THE
FORESEEABLE FUTURE HE EXPECTS TO
WORRY MORE ABOUT CONTAINING
SOCIAL UNREST.
DISPATCHING MORE TANKER AND
PAIRRE TRUCKS LIKE HE DOES TODAY
THAN ABOUT THE LONG TERM
PROBLEMSHAT  TARE, LITERALLY,
SINKING ONE OF THE WORLD'S
LARGEST CITIES.
>> Ifill: FRED'S REPORTING IS A
PARTNERSHIP WITH THE UNDER-TOLD
STORIES PROJECT AT ST. MARY'S
UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA.
>> Woodruff: NOW, THE STORY OF
AN UNUSUAL HEIST IN THE WORLD OF
CLASSICAL MUSIC THAT WAS YEARS
IN THE MAKING, WITH AN UNLIKELY
THIEF, A POLICE COMMISSIONER
DEVOTED TO THE SYMPHONY AND A
HISTORIC INSTRUMENT.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THE STORY.
>> Brown: IT'S CALLED THE
LIPINSKI STRADIVARIUS, A VIOLIN
MADE 299-YEARS-AGO BY THE MASTER
INSTRUMENT-MAKER.
VALUED AT SOME $6 MILLION
DOLLARS.
AND ON JANUARY 27, FOLLOWING
A PERFORMANCE, IT WAS STOLEN
FROM FRANK ALMOND, THE CONCERT-
MASTER OF THE MILWAUKEE SYMPHONY
ORCHESTRA.
BUT JUST NINE DAYS LATER, IT WAS
FOUND, SAFE AND SOUND.
IN THE ATTIC OF A LOCAL HOUSE.
42-YEAR-OLD MILWAUKEE NATIVE
SALAH SALAHADYN PLEADED GUILTY
TO THE THEFT LAST MONTH.
AND TODAY WAS GIVEN A SEVEN
MONTH SENTENCE.
JOURNALIST AND WRITER BUZZ
BISSINGER TOLD THE STRANGE TALE
OF THE ROBBERY AND ITS AFTERMATH
IN A STORY FOR VANITY FAIR
MAGAZINE.
HE'S THE BEST-SELLING AUTHOR OF
"FRIDAY NIGHT LIGHTS" AND OTHER
BOOKS.
AND JOINS US NOW.
WELCOME TO YOU.
SO THE THEFT ITSELF WAS PRETTY
EASY.
DONE WITH TASER, RIGHT?
TELL US A LITTLE BIT ABOUT THE
THEFT AND THE PLOT.
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, SALAH
SALAHADYN HAD A PLAN, A PLAN HE
TALKED ABOUT IN PRISON.
HE SAID, YOU KNOW WHAT WOULD BE
REALLY EASY IS TO STEAL A
STRADIVARIUS FROM A VIOLINIST
BECAUSE THEY DON'T PROTECT THEM
MUCH THERE'S NO SECURITY.
HE THOUGHT ABOUT IT AND
BASICALLY WENT AND DID IT.
HE CASED FRANK ALMOND'S HOUSE.
HE KNEW HIS PATTERNS, WENT TO
HIS CONCERTS, KNEW HIS EXIT
PATTERNS AND ON THAT FRIGID
JANUARY NIGHT, HE GOT OUT OF HIS
VAN, SAW FRANK COMING OUT OF THE
CONCERT HALL.
HE USED THE TASER.
FRANK WAS OBVIOUSLY SHOCKED, AND
HE TOOK HIS $6 MILLION
STRADIVARIUS VIOLIN AND, BY THE
WAY, BOWS WORTH $50,000.
>> Brown: NOT HARD TO TAKE,
BUT THEN HARD TO KNOW WHAT TO DO
WITH, RIGHT?
DO WE EVEN KNOW WHAT THE MOTIVE
WAS?
I SAW SOME THEORY THAT MAYBE IT
WAS TO TAKE IT AND THEN GIVE IT
BACK FOR THE MONEY THAT HE'D
GET.
>> YOU KNOW, LOOK, IT'S COMMON
SENSE.
HE HAD A PLAN AND, YOU KNOW, IT
WAS A FINE PLAN IN TERMS OF
STEALING THE VIOLIN, ALTHOUGH
FRANK DID TAKE CARE OF HIT.
HE WASN'T CAVALIER ABOUT IT LIKE
SOME MUSICIANS ARE.
BUT WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO DO
WITH IT?
WHERE ARE YOU GOING TO FENCE IT?
IT'S NOT LIKE HUBCAPS.
IT'S NOT EVEN LIKE A GIRAFFE.
NO ONE WANTS IT.
WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO DO WITH
IT?
HE HAD NO IDEA WHAT TO DO WITH
IT.
WHAT HE SAID ABOUT WANTING TO
BUY THE APARTMENT COMPLEX WHERE
HE LIVED TO HELP OLDER TENANTS
AND MINORITY TENANTS, HE'S GIVEN
A LOT OF DIFFERENT STORIES AS TO
WHAT HE WAS GOING TO DO WIT.
I PERSONALLY THINK HE WAS GOING
TO TRY TO PROFIT FROM IT, BUT HE
HAD ONE BIG PROBLEM WHICH IS THE
POLICE COMMISSIONER,
COMMISSIONER FLYNN OF MILWAUKEE,
ED FLYNN, HE MAY BE THE ONLY
POLICE CHIEF IN THE COUNTRY WHO
KNEW WHAT A STRADIVARIUS WAS.
HE WENT TO THE ORCHESTRA, KNEW
BOARD MEMBERS.
THE POLICE OFFICERS AT THE SCENE
DIDN'T KNOW WHAT IT WAS.
THEY SAID, MR. ALMOND, HOW DO
YOU SPELL STRADIVARIUS?
HE SAID, WHAT?
$6 MILLION!
HE KNEW.
AND HE GOT ONE OF THE POLICE
OFFICERS OF THE SCENE AND SAID,
SEND IN THE CAVALRY AND SALAH
SALAHADYN BECAUSE GONER AFTER
THAT.
THEY HAD COPS AND DECKIVES, SOME
FROM HOMICIDE, ALL OVER THE
PLACE.
>> Brown: THERE'S A HISTORY OF
STRADS BEING LOST, TAKE AN, I
DON'T KNOW IF EVER BY THIS KIND
OF MEANS.
TELL US ABOUT THIS PARTICULAR
VIOLIN.
IT HAS ITS OWN HISTORY.
IT'S NAMED AFTER ONE OF ITS
FORMER OWNERS, A POLISH
VIOLINIST.
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, STRADIVARIUS,
THERE ARE ABOUT 600 INSTRUMENTS
LEFT.
IT'S AMAZING.
IT'S REMARKABLE.
YOU THINK ABOUT IT, AN
INSTRUMENT THAT WAS MADE 299
YEARS AGO IS STILL BASICALLY
PERFECT.
I DON'T THINK ANYTHING -- THERE
IS NO ANYTHING THAT'S EVER BEEN
EQUALED BY WHAT STRADIVARIUS HAS
DONE AND THE SOUND HE CREATED.
IT WAS MADE 299 YEARS AGO.
THE ORIGINAL OWNER WAS TARTINE,
AND HE HAD A DREAM WHERE THE
DEVIL CAME TO HIM, BASICALLY,
AND SAID, I'M GOING TO PLAY THE
MOST BEAUTIFUL SOUND AND MELODY
EVER.
HE WROTE IT DOWN, CALLED THE
DEVIL'S SONATA, AND THEN, FROM
THERE, WENT TO LIPINSKI, WHO WAS
A POLISH VIOLINIST, THEN OTHER
PLACES AND, FINALLY, ENDED UP IN
THE HANDS OF A MAN AND HIS WIFE
WAS A CONCERT VIOLINIST WHO HAD
TIES TO MILWAUKEE, WHICH IS HOW
IT FOUND ITS WAY TO MILWAUKEE.
>> Brown: SO, IN THE END, WHAT
DO YOU TAKE FROM ALL OF THIS?
IT SOUNDS LIKE IT'S PARTLY A
VERY FUNNY TALE OF A CAPER GONE
AWRY THAT DIDN'T HAVE A CHANCE
FROM THE START AND ALSO PARTLY
POTENTIALLY TRAGIC.
SO WHAT DO YOU TAKE?
>> YEAH, I FIND TRAGEDY IN IT.
TO ME, THE TRAGEDY IS, FIRST OF
ALL, FRANK ALMOND COULD HAVE
GOTTEN HURT.
IF YOU CRACK YOUR HEAD ON THE
ICE, AND THERE WAS THICK ICE,
YOU CAN DIE.
I THOUGHT THERE WAS A TRAGEDY IN
MR. SALAH SALAHADYN.
I MET HIM.
HE'S A VERY, VERY SMART, BRIGHT,
ON THE WRONG TRACK.
HE HAD TWO PRIOR CRIMINAL FELONY
CONVICTIONS AND MY SENSE WAS,
YOU KNOW, YOU COULD HAVE DONE A
LOT ELSE WITH YOUR LIFE THAN BE
THE MANAGER OF AN APARTMENT
COMPLEX OF WHICH HE WAS MAKING
NO MONEY, AND THEN THIS
COCKAMAMIE SCHEME TO STEAL A
VIOLIN.
THAT, TO ME, IS WHERE THE
TRAGEDY WAS.
THIS IS A GUY WHO SHOULD HAVE
DONE MORE WITH HIS LIFE BUT GOT
CAUGHT UP IN THE CYCLE OF
POVERTY AND NOT KNOWING HOW TO
GET OUT OF IT.
IT REALLY SHOULD NOT HAVE
HAPPENED.
>> Brown: BUZZ BISSINGER,
THANKS SO MUCH FOR TELLING US
THE STORY.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Brown: LET'S CLOSE BY
HEARING FRANK ALMOND PLAYING THE
LIPINSKI STRADIVARIUS, HERE'S A
SHORT PIECE OF THE DEVIL'S
SONATA.
PLAYED SHORTLY AFTER THE VIOLIN
WAS RECOVERED.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT, IN
THE AFTERMATH OF THE 2014
MIDTERM ELECTIONS, WE TAKE A
LOOK BACK TO A DIFFERENT
POLITICAL TIME.
A TIME WHEN A NATIONAL FIGURE
COULD DESCRIBE HIMSELF AS HAVING
A DEMOCRATIC HEART WITH A
REPUBLICAN HEAD, AND BE TAKEN
SERIOUSLY.
THAT MAN, NELSON ROCKEFELLER,
WAS A FOUR TERM GOVERNOR OF NEW
YORK, SERVED AS VICE PRESIDENT
IN THE MID 1970'S, AND RAN THREE
TIMES FOR THE PRESIDENCY.
NOW, HISTORIAN AND NEWSHOUR
REGULAR RICHARD NORTON SMITH HAS
WRITTEN A NEW BIOGRAPHY.
"ON HIS OWN TERMS: A LIFE OF
NELSON ROCKEFELLER."
I TALKED TO HIM RECENTLY.
RICHARD NORTON SMITH, WELCOME
BACK TO THE "NewsHour".
>> THANKS.
GOOD TO BE HERE.
>> Woodruff: YOU SURELY NOW
KNOW MORE ABOUT NELSON
ROCKEFELLER THAN ANY LIVING
PERSON ON THE PLANET.
YOU SPENT 14 YEARS WORKING ON
THIS BOOK.
WHY DOES HE DESERVE SO MUCH OF
YOUR TIME AND TALENT?
>> OH, GOSH!
WELL, HE'S AN ENORMOUS FIGURE,
OBVIOUSLY, IN THE HISTORY OF THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY AND IN THE
HISTORY OF THE 20th CENTURY.
I'LL BET YOU VERY FEW OF YOUR
VIEWERS KNOW HE'S THE FATHER OF
N.A.T.O.
AT THE U.N. CONFERENCE IN 1945,
A VERY YOUNG DIPLOMAT NELSON
ROCKEFELLER WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR
MENDING THE U.N. CHARTER TO
ALLOW FOR THE CREATION OF
DEFENSIVE MILITARY ALLIANCES.
THAT'S N.A.T.O.
THE HISTORY OF THE COLD WAR AND
THE 20th CENTURY WOULD HAVE
BEEN VERY DIFFERENT HAD IT BEEN
OTHERWISE.
>> Woodruff: AND SO MUCH MORE.
HE CAME FROM THIS
LARGER-THAN-LIFE FAMILY.
HIS GRADUATE WAS A FOUNDER OF
STANDARD OIL.
HE WAS CLEARLY SHAPED BY HIS
FAMILY BUT, ON THE OTHER HAND,
HE DIDN'T CONFORM TO THAT, DID
HE?
>> NO.
I MEAN, HIS GRANDFATHER WAS
ARGUABLY THE MOST HATED MAN IN
AMERICA EXCEPT HIS OTHER
GRANDFATHER, SENATOR NELSON
ALDRIDGE, THE REPUBLICAN LEADER
OF THE UNITED STATES SENATE WHO
WAS HATED IN HIS OWN SPHERE.
SO NELSON HAD A LOT TO REDEEM,
IN A SENSE.
THE KEY FIGURE WAS HIS MOTHER,
ABBY ALDRIDGE ROCKEFELLER, WHO
TODAY WOULD BE THE POLITICAL
CANDIDATE.
THAT WAS NOT POSSIBLE THEN, SO
HE BECAME HER SURROGATE.
WHEN HE WAS BORN, SHE SAID, I'VE
DONE MY DUTY BY THIS FAMILY,
I'VE GIVEN YOU A JOHN III, THIS
ONE IS MINE.
IT WAS FROM ABBY HE IMBIEWBED
HIS LOVE OF PEOPLE, POLITICS,
ART AND ALL THINGS CONTEMPORARY.
ANYTHING THAT MADE HIM SUCH A
CHARISMATIC FIGURE AND SUCH A
POWER NOT ONLY IN NEW YORK BUT
NATIONALLY.
>> Woodruff: YOU WRITE, AMONG
MANY OTHER THINGS, ABOUT HIS
SEVERE LEARNING DISABILITY, THE
DYSLEXIA AND HOW HE THROUGHOUT
HIS LIFE COMPENSATED FOR THAT
AND HOW THAT ALSO SHAPED HIM.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
HIS DYSLEXIA WENT UNDIAGNOSED.
HE WAS 50 YEARS OLD BEFORE HE
EVER HEARD THE WORD DYSLEXIA.
HE WENT THROUGH LIFE BELIEVING
HE HAD A DEFICIENT I.Q. AND HIS
MOTHER, ABBY, SAID SURROUND
YOURSELF BY PEOPLE WHO ARE
SMARTER THAN YOU.
HE TOOK HER ADVICE.
EVERY ROCKEFELLER OPERATION WAS
IN FACT MARKED BY ALL THESE
ADVISORS AND GURUS AND ONE OF
THEM HENRY KISSINGER WHOM HE
INTRODUCED TO THE AMERICAN
SCENE.
>> Woodruff: LET'S TALK ABOUT
HIS POLITICS.
HE WORKED FOR FRANKLIN ROOSEVELT
AS A YOUNG MAN AND HE WAS A
REPUBLICAN.
BUT HE DIDN'T BELIEVE IN SO MUCH
OF WHAT WAS THE GOSPEL OF THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY.
HE WAS A HUGE SUPPORTER OF THE
CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT.
HE OPPOSED EVERYTHING BARRY
GOLDWATER STOOD FOR.
WHERE DOES HE FIT IN THE
IDEOLOGICAL SPECTRUM?
>> HE GOES BACK TO TEDDY
ROOSEVELT WHO WAS A PROGRESSIVE
CONSERVATIVE, A GREAT BELIEVER
IN THE CAPITALIST SYSTEM, BUT
ALSO SOMEONE WHO UNDERSTOOD THAT
THAT SYSTEM UNI'VETAABLY
PRODUCED INADD QUAIS SIS AND
INJUSTICES THEREFORE IT WAS THE
ROLE OF THE REPUBLICAN PARTY AND
THOUGHTFUL CONSERVATIVES TO, IN
A PROACTIVE WAY, ADDRESS THE
INEQUITIES SO THAT POPULAR
DISAFFECTION COULD NOT GROW AND
REFORM TOWARD REVOLUTION.
NELSON ROCKEFELLER FAMOUSLY
SAID, "IF YOU HAVE A POOR
EDUCATION AND POOR HEALTH, THEN
I BELIEVE SOCIETY HAS LET YOU
DOWN."
HE BELIEVED THERE WAS SUCH A
THING AS SOCIETY, AND HE
BELIEVED THAT DEMOCRATIC WITH A
SMALL D CAPITALISM WOULD BE
JUDGED AND INDEED SURVIVE BASED
ON ITS ABILITY TO ADDRESS THOSE
AND OTHER NEEDS.
>> Woodruff: HE WAS FOUR TERMS
GOVERNOR OF NEW YORK.
YOU WRITE PEOPLE THOUGHT HE
WANTED TO BE PRESIDENT BUT EVERY
TIME HE GOT CLOSE HE SEEMED TO
SABOTAGE HIMSELF.
>> HAPPY ROCKEFELLER HIS SECOND
WIFE, DIVORCE AND REMARRIAGE WAS
A HUGE CONTROVERSY 50 YEARS AGO.
TODAY, THOUGH, ARGUABLY, IT
WOULD NOT BE.
SHE TOLD ME, SHE WONDERED HOW
BADLY, IN FACT, HE WANTED TO BE
PRESIDENT BECAUSE EVERY TIME HE
GOT CLOSE, SHE SAID, HE DID
SOMETHING STUPID LIKE MARRY ME.
THERE ARE OTHER PEOPLE WHO
BELIEVED THE GHOST OF FRANKLIN
ROOSEVELT HAUNTED HIM AND WHEN
HE LOOKED AT THE PRESIDENCY, HE
WASN'T RUNNING AGAINST JOHN
KENNEDY OR RICHARD NIXON BUT
F.D.R.
F.D.R. WAS THE PRESIDENT.
IT WAS HIDDEN AWAY FROM THE
PUBLIC AN ELEMENT OF
VULNERABILITY AND ETCH
SELF-DOUBT WHEN IT CAME TO HIS
ABILITY TO COMMAND THE
PRESIDENCY THE WAY F.D.R. HAD.
>> Woodruff: YOU SPEND A FINAL
CHAPTER ON HIS DEATH.
HE WAS 70 YEARS OLD.
HE WAS OFF WITH A YOUNG WOMAN
WHO WAS HIS MISTRESS, DIED OF A
MASSIVE HEART ATTACK.
WHY WAS THAT PARTICULAR THING
THE END AND WHY DEVOTE THAT MUCH
TIME TO IT?
>> UNFORTUNATELY, FOR A WHOLE
GENERATION, IT CAME TO DEFINE
AND IN MANY WAYS DIMINISH HIM.
THE FACT IS THERE'S A LOT WE DID
NOT KNOW.
THE BACKGROUND IS HE WAS DYING.
HE HAD A VERY SERIOUS HEART
CONDITION WHICH, AGAIN, HE KEPT
FROM THE PUBLIC.
TO THIS DAY, THAT'S NEWS.
BUT IN A LARGER SENSE, THERE'S
ONE CONTINUING, HISTORICALLY
RELEVANT, SIGNIFICANT PART OF
THAT STORY AND THAT IS THE ROLE
OF THE PRESS.
THE WAY I TELL THE STORY, IT'S A
STORY OF A COVERUP THAT
UNRAVELED VERY QUICKLY.
I ARGUE, BEGINNING THAT NIGHT,
NOT WITH GARY OR A LATER
INCIDENCE BUT BEGINNING WITH THE
NIGHT OF NELSON ROCKEFELLER'S
DEATH, THE PRESS REDEFINE WHAT
WAS TRADITIONALLY CONSIDERED
PUBLIC VERSUS PRIVATE AND YOU
CAN GET A PRETTY GOOD ARGUMENT
OVER WHETHER IT'S BEEN FOR
JOURNALISM OR GOOD FOR
DEMOCRACY, BUT THERE'S VERY
LITTLE DOUBT IT BEGAN WITH
NELSON ROCKEFELLER'S DEATH AS A
COVERUP THAT UNRAVELED.
>> Woodruff: IT IS AN
EXTRAORDINARY BOOK,
EXTRAORDINARY STORY TELLING.
A LOT OF LOVE ANDORK W WENT INTO
IT.
RICHARD NORTON SMITH, WE THANK
YOU.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
PREDICTED NEARLY TEN MILLION
AMERICANS WILL SIGN UP FOR
PRIVATE HEALTH CARE PLANS IN
2015.
THE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE
HAD FORECAST 13 MILLION.
AND A SUICIDE BOMBER IN NIGERIA
KILLED AT LEAST 48 STUDENTS AT A
HIGH SCHOOL ASSEMBLY.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE RIGHT NOW PREDICTING
ELECTION OUTCOMES HAS BECOME A
POPULAR PURSUIT FOR PUNDITS AND
AMATEURS ALIKE, BUT WHAT IF
POLLSTERS ARE ASKING THE WRONG
QUESTION?
WE EXPLAIN WHY SURVEYING VOTERS
EXPECTATIONS ABOUT WHO WILL WIN
IS MORE RELIABLE THAN ASKING
ABOUT VOTERS' INTENTIONS. THAT'S
ON MAKING SEN$E.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, pbs.org/newshour.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, WE'LL HAVE A SPECIAL
VETERANS DAY REPORT ON THOSE WHO
GAVE THE LAST FULL MEASURE.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
AND I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOAND U GOOD
NIGHT.